README.md, before:

### Rexa metatagger: scientific paper header and reference extraction.


Metatagger is a system which consumes the output of the Rexa's
[pstotext](https://github.com/iesl/rexa1-pstotext) tool and produces an annotated version of the
text, finishing by writing the results to an XML file. The system is a structured series of pipelined
components, each performing some task, such as layout analysis (e.g., header block, abstract,
body text), or finer-grained labelling, such as identifying reference fields.

The stablest and most mature pipeline components are the coarse segementation system, the
header field labeller, and the reference field labeller. Other components which are in various
states of development include an "acknowledgements" section labeller, grant number/granting
institution labeller, and citations-in-context identification (i.e., identifying the points in the
document where the reference markers appear).

![Alt text](./docs/img/pdf-and-meta-hdr.png)

Header fields include: 

   + title
   + authors, author, author-first, author-middle, author-last
   + institution
   + address
   + email
   + abstract

- - - 

Body fields include: 

   + section-marker
   + paragraph-marker
   + notext
   + figure-marker
   + table-marker
   + citation

- - - 

The citation tag will be put around a citation in the text of the document's abstract and body.  It contains a refID attribute which 
will contain a reference's refID value if the algorithm was able to link the citation to a reference.  If the algorithm was unable 
to link a citation to a reference, then a "-1" will be placed in the citation's refID attribute. 

- - -

![Alt text](./docs/img/pdf-and-meta-ref.png)

Reference fields include:

   + address
   + author, author-first, author-last, authors
   + conference
   + date
   + journal
   + note
   + pages
   + publisher
   + reference
   + ref-marker
   + series
   + title
   + volume
   + web

- - - 

Each reference XML tag is given the following attributes to help identify where the 
element was found within the original PDF file: 

   + pageNum - page number element was found on
   + llx, lly, urx, ury - coordinates of the rectangle it was found in

- - -

Some reference XML tags are given the following attributes: 

   + id

### Compiling


    $prompt> ./sbt compile

### Running

Basic usage: cat input-file-list | bin/runcrf

The wrapper script *runcrf* expects a list of input and output filename pairs, one per line,
like so:

    /path/to/input/file.xml -> /path/to/output/file.output.xml

An example file might look like this:

	pstotext-samples/0036C69A8021179B87B8703EE912685CE9DF6606.pdf.pstotext.xml -> pstotext-samples/0036C69A8021179B87B8703EE912685CE9DF6606.pdf.pstotext.xml.tagged.xml
	pstotext-samples/003E74C5D7BA741455E5F4659D9BBF4F7240BCF6.pdf.pstotext.xml -> pstotext-samples/003E74C5D7BA741455E5F4659D9BBF4F7240BCF6.pdf.pstotext.xml.tagged.xml
	pstotext-samples/0035A6C7E94004CE1FF6FA8BE4A64B57D69C9791.ps.pstotext.xml -> pstotext-samples/0035A6C7E94004CE1FF6FA8BE4A64B57D69C9791.ps.pstotext.xml.tagged.xml

Here's how to run it:

    $prompt> cat file.txt | bin/runcrf

A method to run a single file:
	
	$prompt> echo "pstotext-samples/0036C69A8021179B87B8703EE912685CE9DF6606.pdf.pstotext.xml -> pstotext-samples/0036C69A8021179B87B8703EE912685CE9DF6606.pdf.pstotext.xml.tagged.xml" | bin/runcrf

Commit message:

Updated README to include more citation in context stuff.

README.md, after:

Rexa metatagger: scientific paper header and reference extraction.
===================
-----

Metatagger is a system which consumes the output of the Rexa's
[pstotext](https://github.com/iesl/rexa1-pstotext) tool and produces an annotated version of the
text, finishing by writing the results to an XML file. The system is a structured series of pipelined
components, each performing some task, such as layout analysis (e.g., header block, abstract,
body text), or finer-grained labelling, such as identifying reference fields.

The stablest and most mature pipeline components are the coarse segementation system, the
header field labeller, and the reference field labeller. Other components which are in various
states of development include an "acknowledgements" section labeller, and grant number/granting
institution labeller.

![Alt text](./docs/img/pdf-and-meta-hdr.png)

Header fields include: 

   + title
   + authors, author, author-first, author-middle, author-last
   + institution
   + address
   + email
   + abstract
   + citation (this tag may appear in the asbtract)

- - - 

Body fields include: 

   + section-marker
   + paragraph-marker
   + notext
   + figure-marker
   + table-marker
   + citation

- - - 

Thoughout a document's body and abstract many other documents/sources are cited. These citations, e.g. [ 1 ], (1), or (AuthorLast 1999), 
are now marked with an XML tag as well as linked to a reference in the biblio section.  When linked, the "refID" attribute of the citation 
tag will contain the value of a reference's "refID" from the biblio section of the document.  If the algorithm was unable to find a 
suiteable reference for a particular citation, the citation attribute "refID" will contain a "-1", signifying that no reference matched the citation. 

- - -

![Alt text](./docs/img/pdf-and-meta-ref.png)

References are located in the biblio section of the document. Reference fields include:

   + address
   + author, author-first, author-last, authors
   + conference
   + date
   + journal
   + note
   + pages
   + publisher
   + reference
   + ref-marker
   + series
   + title
   + volume
   + web

- - - 

Each reference XML tag is given the following attributes to help identify where the 
element was found within the original PDF file: 

   + pageNum - page number element was found on
   + llx, lly, urx, ury - coordinates of the rectangle it was found in


Reference XML tags are also given the following attribute: 

   + refID - a unique id with which to reference the reference by

### Compiling



    $prompt> ./sbt compile

### Running


Basic usage: cat input-file-list | bin/runcrf

The wrapper script *runcrf* expects a list of input and output filename pairs, one per line,
like so:

    /path/to/input/file.xml -> /path/to/output/file.output.xml

An example file might look like this:

	pstotext-samples/0036C69A8021179B87B8703EE912685CE9DF6606.pdf.pstotext.xml -> pstotext-samples/0036C69A8021179B87B8703EE912685CE9DF6606.pdf.pstotext.xml.tagged.xml
	pstotext-samples/003E74C5D7BA741455E5F4659D9BBF4F7240BCF6.pdf.pstotext.xml -> pstotext-samples/003E74C5D7BA741455E5F4659D9BBF4F7240BCF6.pdf.pstotext.xml.tagged.xml
	pstotext-samples/0035A6C7E94004CE1FF6FA8BE4A64B57D69C9791.ps.pstotext.xml -> pstotext-samples/0035A6C7E94004CE1FF6FA8BE4A64B57D69C9791.ps.pstotext.xml.tagged.xml

Here's how to run it:

    $prompt> cat file.txt | bin/runcrf

A method to run a single file:
	
	$prompt> echo "pstotext-samples/0036C69A8021179B87B8703EE912685CE9DF6606.pdf.pstotext.xml -> pstotext-samples/0036C69A8021179B87B8703EE912685CE9DF6606.pdf.pstotext.xml.tagged.xml" | bin/runcrf
